"Dona" as in Tibetan Buddhism as "dungta" as translated into English as "raising up windhorse
energy".
What it actually means is "windhorse energy", right? Windhorse. Wind generally, as we all know, is
one of the very powerful elements among the five elements.
There are five elements, wind, fire, water, earth, and sky. Those are the powerful elements.
Among those all five elements, the wind is the most active and powerful.
Actually, the sky or the space is allowing the all four of those elements after whom, activated.
So space is open, the openness of the space. Within that space, the four elements are activated,
activity stages.
That's why all external world is here because of the four elements in space.
And our physical is here because of the space and four elements.
So whatever the visible things to see is four elements, according to Vedayana Buddhism or Buddhism.
There's nothing else. No matter, of course, we can use all the terminologies, divide it, many
different these and that things.
But every brain is kind of summarizing all its four elements within the space.
Without the space, we won't move anything. There's no growth. Never going to do anything.
This space is allowing the openness, openness within the spaces, then four elements are active.
Among the four elements, as I said, wind is the most powerful.
According with Buddhism, for example, this universal world is residing in the space because of the
wind.
Wind is holding up. Or in other words, maybe it's gravity, gravities, but not just only holding up,
the world is moving.
The things are growing, things are changing. It's wind.
Wind is action. Wind is movement.
So here, among all the elements, we say, wind, raising of the wind horse energy.
And we have the perfect wind elements. Then it changes the fire, water, wind into the favorable
cities.
It will cover that. And wind is disturbed. Everything will be crumbled. It won't happen.
So wind is so important. That's it. And our physical is best also on the wind.
Again, of course, space is there, but wind is so powerful.
With all the wind, there's nothing going to move. No matter if fire element is strong, fire, water,
and earth all strong, but it will be changed.
Our physical is again not going to do anything because of wind.
This wind is that our life begins with wind and ends with wind. There's nothing else.
Wind is sustainable. And thinking of the global level, environment is also really best for the wind
.
Wind is disturbed. The element is disturbed. And then it starts disturbing the earth, all the other
elements.
So wind is so powerful. Therefore, particularly in the Vedayana teaching, it says, raising of the
wind horse energy.
And now there is now a sense of wind is so powerful. Sense of wind is so special and so crucial to
our own existing, our well-being, and our everything.
It's wind. And this time, we're going to change wind, something more positive, more virtuous.
That is what is known as raising of the wind horse energy. We're going to change wind in the
positive status.
How? Generally in the Buddha's teaching that you heard, we heard always, things will be changed by
performing the good deeds.
And that good deed, what is known as Buddhism, merit, merit, there's two merits, accumulation merit
, worst merit, two merits.
This both will change things. Why? Because everything is dependent upon the cause and the
conditions and circumstances.
Without the cause and the conditions, nothing will grow, nothing will change, nothing will move
anything.
But to create this beautiful substance and condition, things will change inevitably, without any
doubt or hesitation.
So merit, generally Buddha's terminology in the teaching, merit will change according to our desire
, which we like to move.
Therefore, do the merits. For those reasons, even our highest realization of the Buddhahood,
enlightenment, comes by the merits.
But in the great teachings, always say, without the merit and by the devotion, the blessings by the
devotions, realization won't grow.
The teaching says, with merit, that is also your devotion, which brings merit, combination of the
merit and as well as devotion, realization shines from the heart as the sun is shining.
Shining. That's what the really teaching says. So merit is so important. Without merit, there's
nothing will change.
Among all the merits, and then in the two accumulative merits, in very young teaching, so many
skill means how to accumulate merit.
Raising of the wind hose energy is one of the most powerful skill means of the accumulative merit
rapidly, quickly, and that is what raising of the wind hose energy is.
And the wind hose energy also raising up according to very young teaching is cooperating with our
elements, such as all the five elements.
This reflexes are cooperated with that, colors, five colors. Actually, this is all, everything is
one way, best on the five.
Five elements, five arrogance, and five senses, five emotions, five versitums, five colors, I mean
entirely universe, all the samsara and the rana is within that frame state of the five.
It's not just Buddha man up there or somebody did that. That's what the nature is.
And then, for example, ourself, also our physical looking, we have five organs, five aggregate or
five inner organs, five senses, and then mentally speaking about five emotions, five versitums.
And then also wind level speaking, there's five different winds, produce wind, light force wind,
and in that digestion wind, and downward moving wind, outward moving wind, those all controls our
systems of the whole, even physical is fire.
And then, for example, five senses, why five senses are so active?
According to Buddhism, because of outward wind, if the wind is wrong, we're not going to move,
these five senses are not going to move.
That means we're not going to see, we're not going to hear, we're not going to smell, we're not
going to taste, we're not going to feel or touch.
All is that, related with that. And this five-week video is full of skill for me, we're raising up
that.
Bring out glorifying biology out of the wind force, those vitalities.
Wind-wind force is strong, what that will do? It brings relaxation, joy, peace, happiness,
prosperity, performance in our lives, and remove all obstacles,
obscurations, negativeities, disturbances. We become more strong and powerful, like Gethse.
Gethse was surrounded by all the obstacles, but one after another, he completely removed, cleared
away everything.
He came up as a brilliant son, as the great master of modern music, a brilliant son behind clothes.
Raising up the video, unmet, what's called matchless. Matchless is a shining power.
Warriors are not just coming because that happened. Warrior comes as we know, because of defeat and
negative forces.
That's what the name called warriors. Warriors are not just born with warriors, but defeating,
overpowering, conquering all obstacles,
handedness, yet courage and commitment and determination remains strong, deep, and powerful as like
mountain or as like ocean.
And then love and kindness, compassion prevail with every direction and sunshine, light. That is
what the warriors are, true warriors are.
That was really this wind force, energies are, bring forward. So we had a great opportunity to do
this every year in this beautiful rich land.
Land and raising up this one horse energy. We are going to cooperate this, raising up the wind
horse energy with Mahayana Buddhism,
the essential teaching of the Buddha Chakra with gracious teachers, with love and kindness,
compassion, bodhicata, not just only ourselves.
We do this for all the senses, to every living place. We really, which is strongly part of our
heart, in the world there is peace, harmonious, and generous speaking.
Individually speaking, may there is no more disease, sicknesses, getting old and difficult,
troubles, declines, loneliness,
depression, really we wish that removed all the way, cleared up and bring up such courage and
commitment, joy, peace, happiness, and well-being.
Really, which is strongly. That is the practice. That is our teaching of the Buddha Chakra Muni,
where the followers of the Buddha Chakra Muni is.
That is what the Buddha said. That is what we are doing. And by doing this, how many of those great
masters achieve realization and fulfillment
and bring them joy and peace, happiness, and both joy and peace to all mankind, all the living
beings without any discriminations.
That is what really is teaching. So we really bring up that energy, that quality. We wish
everything is good and best.
And we wish really sincerely from that. And that is bodhicata practice.
And that is the combination of the Mahayana Sutra teaching and the essential teaching of the Mahay
ana Sutra,
and the Vaidyana teaching combined together, we raise up this all, beautiful prayerfulness, or the
raising of this wind horse, energies.
And then really make that. Then wish everything. From now on, in the future, there is no more war,
no more famine, no more natural disasters,
no more sickness and famine. And wish every best things. And then really we are doing also in the
individual level, what is teaching.
If we do that, we are doing something meaningful in our lives. Life is precious. Life is so
important. Life is so special.
But we make use of that to ourselves, to the beings. We are also contributing some good things to
the world.
That is really good, to this country, to the beyond. And also to the whole country.
We dedicated this marriage to all those who passed. This is called memory weekends.
Memory, the best memory weekend is doing the good activities with positive thought and dedicated to
that all living beings.
To everyone in the past and present future. I think that is one of the great memory weekends that
we can do in our life and our self.
It is something special. And all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, every enlightenment we will reduce,
embrace our deed, our thought and intention while we are doing that.
Truly we are following with the footsteps of these great ancient masters or the warriors that who
defeated all the obstacles of the samsara, samsara and the reach to the Buddhahood enlightenment.
So that is what we will do. And that is really my introduction of this wind raising of the wind
horse.
And now we do short again the blessings of this.
And again this is the very honor teaching, teaching Murugama sama to bless that with the kakana.
As is already presented by beautifully this all the buddhas, sakrits, all the Murugama sama and the
laga, the masters.
But as it is still we reaffirm, reassure as the instructor by the buddha and Murugama sama.
So we do that short again our deed and we do this.
So then we will raise up the wind horse, we do motivation, up and now then we will also do the fire
period again.
This is the raising of the wind horse and we really remove the obstacles and disease sicknesses and
also cleanse up the environment, all those pollutions.
So we clean up the pollutions of the external, we cleanse the pollution of our inner mental state,
clear with that so that everything becomes so clear in a beautiful pristine state.
Really those are the meaning of this phrase.
So that whole deed is our practice outside, inside, all this activity.
What is the teaching say? Meditation or practice state is post meditation or practice state.
So we are not dividing this and that, the whole thing as a practice state.